## Introduction To Docker
by: Michael Friis, Hunter Loftis, and Jakub Nesetril
@friism & @hunterloftis

## What is Docker?
2008 dotCloud - polyglot Heroku competitor
Docker is factored out from dotCloud proprietary container tech
March 2013 - first open soruce release of Docker
Oct 2013 - dotCloud becomes Docker Inc.
August 2014 - Docker Inc gets rid of dotCloud

## SO what is it?
A set of tools for creating, sharing, and running app containers.

- A dockerfile is like a recipe, for a container.
- Docker image spec - layers generated of changes generated by recipe
- ```docker build ``` build container image from Dockerfile
- Docker hub and registry 

##How are Docker Containers run?

- Good way to package an app and its dependencies and then share it. 
- Docker has good tools, installers, and docs. 
- Helps you get rid of saying "well, it worked on my machine". 
- Sort-of like the promise of JVM, but at a lower level 

## Examples of Docker
```docker run -d rabbitmq ```
Each container is hosting a different machine.
- Docker by itself is powerful, but also very verbose.

## Docker @ Apiary

If you're building many API's, like we are, you should have a nice API design. Apiary offers this kind of services.

#Apiary - What is it?

- Node app
- core web/editor/documentation
- language parser (c)
- api proxy
- Github sync workers
- http test works
- classical monolith -> micro-services evolution

Step 1: 
Problem: Young startup, we had no time and money to care about things.

Step 2:
Problem: App became more complex, builds became bigger and fragile (we started building our own slugs for Heroku deployment).

Step 3: CI/CD Inconsistent with heroku runtime, build induced errors.
Problem: 

## Docker and Heroku
- Docker came from dotCloud, which was a Heroku competitor.
- Heroku has been running containers for 4 years.
- Docker and Heroku are informed by same experiences and principles.

```heroku plugins: install heroku-docker```
